Chromium Chronicle (#1949)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/chromium-chronicle-28/index.md

---

> title: "The Chromium Chronicle #28: Getting started with Bling"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "The Chromium Chronicle #28: Getting started with Chrome on iOS with Bling"
```

description: >
  Learn how to get started with Bling, Chrome on iOS.
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
date: 2022-01-25
hero: 'image/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/hgu6uTktp2ipmuODZZhP.jpg'
alt: >
  Chromium Chronicle image
tags:
  - chromium-chronicle
---

**Episode 28:** by Mark Cogan in Paris, France (January, 2022)<br>
[Previous episodes](/tags/chromium-chronicle/)

> **Bling is Chrome on iOS**. In 2022, Bling will celebrate its 10th anniversary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bling is Chrome on iOS. In 2022, Bling will celebrate its 10th anniversary. 
```

Reviewer: Using bold formatting for emphasis is strongly discouraged in the GDSG. This is a strong statement as is.

> Chrome is one of the most widely used iOS apps—it's currently the number 2 Utility app in the US App Store. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chrome is one of the most widely used iOS apps&mdash;it's currently the number 2 Utility app in the US App Store. 
```

Bling provides all of the great Chrome features our users love, including Sync, Translate, Incognito, Password Manager, Autofill, and many more. 
Bling also integrates with native iOS features such as multi-window and device-wide password autofill. 

However, there's one major thing that makes Bling very different from all other Chrome platform implementations.

Bling doesn't use Blink. 

> Because of Apple's App Store rules, Bling has to use the iOS platform API's for fetching and rendering web content. So Bling uses WebKit, Nitro and CFNetwork where other Chrome platforms are using Blink, V8 and `//net`. Due to this, and the limited API available for iOS apps to interact with web page content, many Chrome features that use the `//content` APIs are implemented in Bling using JavaScript injection. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of Apple's App Store rules, Bling has to use the iOS platform APIs for fetching and rendering web content. So Bling uses WebKit, Nitro, and CFNetwork, while other Chrome platforms use Blink, V8, and `//net`. Due to this, and the limited APIs available for iOS apps to interact with web page content, many Chrome features that use the `//content` APIs. The `//content` APIs are implemented in Bling through JavaScript injection. 
```

Author: this has changed the meaning of the final sentence.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this is now incorrect. iOS Chrome doesn't implement the //content APIs at all. Some features on other Chrome platforms use the //content APIs (for example, autofill). iOS Chrome cannot use the //content APIs. So to build these features, iOS Chrome uses JavaScript injection instead.

Also the penultimate sentence of the paragraph is syntactically incorrect after this edit (there's no longer a verb that matches the "Due to this..." at the beginning).

Cross-platform features in `//components` are structured to share as much code as possible across all platforms while keeping `//content` dependencies siloed:

```bash
ls components/some_component

content/        # code with dependencies on //content.
core/           # cross-platform code with no //content dependencies.
ios/            # iOS implementation using JavaScript injection.
```

Other important differences between Bling and other platforms include:

> - iOS apps are required to be single-process, so Bling can't `fork()`.

Reviewer 2: This may be worth linking out. While I'm confident Blink developers know what this means (and possibly, most OS developers), I'm curious about what `fork()` this refers to and what happens when it's set up.

Reviewer: +1

Reviewer 3: Linking to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fork_(system_call) might be appropriate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- iOS apps are required to be single-process, so Bling can't [`fork()`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fork_(system_call)).
```

- Bling is written in Objective-C++ (a mix of C++ and Objective-C), along with some Swift.

> - While you can compile and run Bling directly on an iOS device, it's possible to do a lot in the quite capable device simulator that Apple provides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- While you can compile and run Bling directly on an iOS device, you can also do a lot of Blink building in the quite capable device simulator that Apple provides.
```

Author: This also appears to have changed the meaning, I'm not sure what was intended here.

Reviewer 3: Yes, changing "it's possible to" to "you can also" is fine, but the insertion of "Blink building" is incorrect. If the intent is to add clarity to "do a lot", then I'd suggest "do a lot of development work" or "do a lot of feature development".

Reviewer 2: Updated the suggestion:

```suggestion
- While you can compile and run Bling directly on an iOS device, you can also do a lot of feature development in the quite capable device simulator that Apple provides.
```

> Getting started with Bling is easy once you get set up. You will need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Set up Bling and start building

Getting started with Bling is easy once you get set up. You will need:
```

Reviewer 2: This could also be "Set up Bling on macOS", unless we update instructions to include simulators or other devices.

Reviewer: I suggest editing out that this is something "easy". That's subjective and discouraging if someone hits a roadblock in the process for whatever reason.

Reviewer 2: Updated my suggestion, apparently my brain has left the building!

- A macOS computer, 64-bit, running macOS 11.3 or higher. Apple Silicon is supported.
- Xcode, the IDE for Apple platforms, version 13.0 or higher.
- The current version of the JDK.

See the [build instructions](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/docs/ios/build_instructions.md) for more information.

> Fetching the source is much like other platforms:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like other building for other platforms, you can use `fetch` to get the source:
```

Author: again, I fear this has altered the meaning.

Reviewer 2: If that's the case, feel free to disregard. This one in particular, I wasn't fully confident in--still learning the language around browser development.

```bash
mkdir ${HOME}/bling
cd ${HOME}/bling
fetch ios
```

After that, you can build from the command line (or from Xcode):

```bash
ninja -C out/Debug-iphonesimulator chrome
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This post would be better served with an ending which lists what a developer could do. Optionally, this could thank them for participating in Bling development.

Maybe something like:

```suggestion
## Learn more about building for Bling

When you build for Bling, we encourage you to refer to the [Chromium style guide](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/styleguide/styleguide.md). Read [Apple's developer documentation](https://developer.apple.com/) to learn more about Swift, xCode, and other iOS-specific resources.

If you're typically an iOS developer and new to Chromium, refer to the [documentation on important abstractions and data structures](http://dev.chromium.org/developers/coding-style/important-abstractions-and-data-structures).

```

Reviewer 2: Removed language around "building"  from here, as that appeared to have been incorrect language for browser development.

---
title: "The Chromium Chronicle #28: Getting started with Chrome on iOS"
description: >
  Learn how to work with the code behind Chrome's iOS app.
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> date: 2022-01-25

Reviewer 4: You may want to update here?

> date: 2022-01-25

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2022-02-01
```

Chrome on iOS also integrates with native iOS features such as multi-window and device-wide password autofill. 

However, there's one major thing that makes Chrome on iOS very different from all other Chrome platform implementations.

Chrome on iOS doesn't use Blink. 

Because of Apple's App Store rules, Chrome on iOS has to use the iOS platform API's for fetching and rendering web content. So Chrome on iOS uses WebKit, Nitro and CFNetwork where other Chrome platforms are using Blink, V8 and `//net`. Due to this, and the limited API available for iOS apps to interact with web page content, many Chrome features that use the `//content` APIs are implemented in Chrome on iOS using JavaScript injection. 

Cross-platform features in `//components` are structured to share as much code as possible across all platforms while keeping `//content` dependencies siloed:

```bash
ls components/some_component

content/        # code with dependencies on //content.
core/           # cross-platform code with no //content dependencies.
ios/            # iOS implementation using JavaScript injection.
```

> Other important differences between Bling and other platforms include:

Reviewer 5: Can we please also replace this instance of "Bling" with "Chrome in iOS" or an alternative word? Thanks!

> Other important differences between Bling and other platforms include:

Author: ```suggestion
Other important differences between Chrome on iOS and other platforms include:
```

- iOS apps are required to be single-process, so Chrome on iOS can't [`fork()`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fork_(system_call)).
- Chrome on iOS is written in Objective-C++ (a mix of C++ and Objective-C), along with some Swift.
- While you can compile and run Chrome on iOS directly on an iOS device, you can also do a lot of feature development in the quite capable device simulator that Apple provides.

## Get started with Chrome on iOS

You will need:

- A macOS computer, 64-bit, running macOS 11.3 or higher. Apple Silicon is supported.
- Xcode, the IDE for Apple platforms, version 13.0 or higher.
- The current version of the JDK.

See the [build instructions](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/docs/ios/build_instructions.md) for more information.

Fetching the source is much like other platforms:

```bash
mkdir ${HOME}/ios
cd ${HOME}/ios
fetch ios
```

After that, you can build from the command line (or from Xcode):

```bash

> ninja -C out/Debug-iphonesimulator chrome

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
autoninja -C out/Debug-iphonesimulator chrome
```
